
    from tao
        fault error failure ok
        Rx ok
            what is Rx? mechanism 
            two types of sensor 
            environment changes ( all the things in a form ) ok
        3. antipattern ok
            cascading failure and how to fix it  -xxx
            chain reaction how to fix it 
        4. bugs as deviant behavior ok 
            explain must beliefs may beliefs  -xxx
            analyse a short of code
                free?lock?
                check-then-use/use-then-check? -xxx
        5. tainted data ok
            static/dynamic 
            coarse grain tainted / precise tainted 
            sting the architecture/signature/ polymorphism *paper ext
        不用写伪代码...
    from slides 
        ppt-1--introduction and roughly what is fault, classes of fault
            the goal of the course? under what condition? roughly p27 -ext 
            what diff from past/before. challenges now ?p7
            what is our approach in general? hhh
            Services need to be? p11
            types of defect ? p13 -ext
            defect density? normally 
            typical kinds of defects in linux? p18 pass
            what is INTEGER HANDLING ISSUE,CONTROL FLOW ISSUE? -ext 
            availability def p32 -xxx
            CAUSES OF UNAVAILABILITY [IEEE1995] x3 roughly
            *relationship fault error failure p35
            CHAIN OF DEPENDABILITY THREATS p39 
                between components
            what is failure model? p43  -xxx
            what happens when it go beyond failure model?
            *FAULT TYPES? x5 imodified p47 -xxx
            Why is Software Fault Tolerance important?
            what are Dependability threads? relationship between them 
            which func can be used in c/c++ to allocate mem? -p47 r1
            *write a mem fault =
        ppt-2--approach1 first step of testing, recommended--Unit test, Ramdom testing(later:Fuzzing, parti....
            the cause of Mars Climate Orbiter crash/xxx in radiation therapy?
            roughly, how is the economic costs of faulty software in the U.S. range?
            abc testing steps, but how to choose?
            the key idea of v life cycle model in systems eng.
            diff. lev of testing?
            Unit testing
                basic terminologies
                    Test case, Test set, SUT, FUT 
                    Black box testing, White box testing
                    post-condition, pre-condition, invariants
                black box sort func testing example roughly, sort? what we are going to implement? op15 large
                    if we test func: is_sorted(),....
                unit test, how can we gen. test case? -- basic gen x2 .......
                how does is_permutation() func. been used?
                why we need to emphasize counter examples?
                use assert to perform unit test code? p15 
                what is the RECOMMENDED APPROACH (order ) to testing a SUT? p16  x5... large  =
            TDD
                3 steps of TEST-DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT
                why new tests should be initially fail? avoid?
                benefits of TDD?  p20 r1  x2 
                how to clean up code? steps?  x3 
                diff bet.  verification and validation? == 
            black-Random testing !
                some terminologies 
                    Failure Rate formula?， SUT, cardinality， for int32 y,z , S=??
                RT FOLLOWS GEOMETRIC DISTRIBUTION ?
                    formula ?
                    given fail probability is t, what is the probability 
                        that at least one failure is found within x times?
                probability of 
                    no failure detected?
                    at least one failure defected? with t and number of test cases x 
                        that means Cumulative distribution function!the pic? p33
                        can add together to calcu. ==
                Mean number of test cases until failure found ? p31 ==
                disadv.? when t is small? what happends
                what can we do to increase likelihood to detect bugs? 
                    by assuming that only one val. is incorrect     
                solution to test overflow. ?  p45 
                problem of black box testing?  -ans 
            white-STRUCTURAL COVERAGE TESTING
                what kind of coverage criterias are there? -ans x3 p56...
                    in detail explain  
                draw a CONTROL FLOW GRAPH p56 ==
                relationship between statement, branch, path, loop coverage? -ans
                WHY NOT ALWAYS 100% STATEMENT COVERAGE? p52 
                cov. are Quantifiable? p53
                loop coverage example, draw a pic p56 
                further coverage criteria x3 p57 ==
                +
                    Def-Use CFG? ,control-flow graph (CFG)
                    All-Defs-Coverage (ADC), All-Uses Coverage (AUC)?
                        https://ece.uwaterloo.ca/~agurfink/ece653/assets/pdf/W04-DataflowCoverage.pdf
        *ppt-3--approach2 “Execute" a program on symbolic inputs
            review, how to test a program?(black box testing) x3 steps p4 
            what are 
                symbolic value p5, symbolic expressions, path constraint, symbolic execution tree 
            how many paths?  
            how to reach the area that we inter. p14 x3 
            HOW TO MITIGATE PATH EXPLOSION? x3 paper, p15  
                later 
            ways to extract constrains? SE Engine? roughly
            what is path constraints in logical term?
            NP-complete?
            stru. of solvers? x2 -ans p21 p19 18 exerp35
            solver-side optimizations? accelerating?
                x2 p24 
            based on the fact that each branch usually depends on a small number of variables...
            pro & cons of SE?...
                problems by symbolic execution x3 p25 p34 
                advantages of symbolic execution? p34 x2 
            tools that w can use to symbolic execution? x3 p27 
            KLEE architecture p28-30 
            distributed se exist....  == 
        ppt-4--approach3 static analysis, checking deviant behavior with addi. checker similar to compiler 
            bugs can be seen as conflicting intentions.....
            goal? Find as many (serious) bugs as possible
            why need automation? 
            key odea of intension check  s4p3
            examples of correctness rules? p5  roughly
            static check based on intent--with an extended compiler
            Lock Checker, free Checker? p10 
            benefits of extending compiler to check source code? p7  x1 
            explain code op11  
            how to dealwith the fact that there may be multiple free functions? p28 
            for an other call to freeit(), we should allocate an other state machine?
            now, still manually...
            problem by doing this heuristik? p29 
            match any call and any pointer? p32 code? roughly
            taint1
                the case that SANITIZE(santaiz) INTEGERS BEFORE USE, explain with pic ? p35 
                some example to this ? p39 roughly
                we should not use integers comes from users directly.....
            MUST belief
                *summ. typical error?  -xxx
                    pointer 
                        use after free
                        check then use/ use then check...
                        os security beliefs at the sametime? 
                    variables
                        uninitialized
                        redundancy...
                        unused
                    buffer 
                        size overflow 
                    heap stack 
                        overflow 
                FIND ERRORS WITHOUT KNOWING TRUTH? x2 p50 
                    summ. method used for must believe and may 
                *MUST beliefs and may, what are they? give examples p52 p56 exerp38 
                how to use those beliefs?
                what are must beliefs in this code ? p51 
                ?? p58 may or must? !! -ext
                p60 61 later template used to drive must beliefs
                check(p==NULL) can drive 2 MUST beli? three typies of traditional contraditons? p65 66 73
                how to do redundancy checking, useless? examples  p75 78 
                FINDING SECURITY HOLES, how? example  p81 
                how to do belief analysis? roughly, general
                if one thing in two sys. imp has two beliefs, there is a contraditons? 
                when there are multiple implementations ? p85
                cross-check for contradictions...
            MAY belief
                the idea used to handle MAY belief? p89 
                why use z-rank to rank 'errors'? some are real error, others are false positives
                    and how?  
                why there may be problems with free() function? p95 
                *z-rank example with foo and bar function? which is err? p96 概率 p91 
                    a ranking formula? compare foo and bar ? is foo< bar err? 
                *free error?similar to last one. example p99 i wrote  
                an other way to rank snippets that we found? p103 
                    heuristic? see how often?...
                an other example, use in subfunction! worst bug case? short explain p108 ??
            check “A() MAY BE FOLLOWED BY B()” Rule? p110 algo x3 p91  -xxx
            the key idea of 'code beliefs'? -ans
            what to use for static analysis? template? algo? p113 
        ppt-5--approach4 'totally random'
            positive testing vs negative testing 
            what is fuzzing? belongs to nega?
            compared to Ramdom testing 
            problem with random testing 
            what is testing coverage/depth ? ==
            anatomy of a testing system p9 x3 -xxx
            anatomy of Ramdom tester... p9 
            FUZZER’S DATA PRODUCTION method? p11 x2 + p12-14 x3x2 hh large
            what is Evolutionary fuzzing p14  
            CLASSIFICATION OF SOPHISTICATION FOR FUZZER’S DATA PRODUCTION p15 hhh
                rank them 
            from the data Generator to SUT? how to transafer data? x4 p17
            what about monitoring sys.? p20  
            Fuzzing workflow p21 x5 after fuzzing? 
            why monitoring? detect what? 
            how to deal with Long testing time when using fuzzing? p22 x1 ==
            ---
            what is tls, in which area?
            implementations for tls protocol? p24 
                later 
            what means "attack" here? p26  
            how to attack roughly? p26
            attack catego.? x3 
                Cryptographic attacks roughly
                State machine attacks
                    Man in the middle can read the whole conversation
                Overflow and Overread attacks 
            main idea of  BLEICHENBACHER’S ATTACK? p31 
            write a TLS-Attacker using fuzzer? modi. x2 p33 
            TLS attacker can reveal several vulnerabilities? which p34 
            the paper Systematic Fuzzing and Testing of TLS Libraries later 
            fuzzing can be used for IPSec over SSH? -future work 
        ppt-6--approach5 'taint analysis' dealing with attacts 
            taint analysis 
                basic s:sql and php injection prevent(static )
                basic idea of taint analysis p5 
                simple way to prevent sql injection p4 
                course vs precise way of tainting  ==
                prevent sql injection using taint analyse..p9 x1 
                what means php injection? p10 
                    -- input strings as php code or manipulate system state 
                vulnerabilities--漏洞！
                detecting vulnerabilities 
                overwrite vulnerability
                common overwrite vulnerability, what they use? x3 p17 
                    bufferxxx 
                overwrite targets? x2 ==
                why not static analyse?
                dynamic taint analysis, the idea? the approach?x2 p18 
                what means 'a sensitive way' when using a data ?
                IMPLEMENTATION? Valgrind
                what are typical untrusted sources?x3 p22 re 
                what are typical ways of propagate a taint? what are we tracking? p23 x2 
                we can detect many attacks with help of taint analysis!.....
                the stru. p28 i write r3
                we can do taint analysis without their source code 
                how to improve the performance when using taint analysis? p28
            for defense system (against attacks)
                Sting: An Automatic Defense System, how does it work? the architecture?  p14
                what is exploit detection 
                how should it be?
                    should provide detailed info 
                    should detect most typies of EXPLOITS
                Antibodies should be vulnerability-specific? p33 
                VSEF? roughly p33 p34 
                paper TAINT-BASED VSEF FILTER GENERATION later 
                can have FALSE POSITIVE and false negatives ? how to deal with ? p39 
                advantages of taint-based VSEF (when compared to Valgrind) x3 p44 -xxx
                success criteria of the VSEF sys.? x2 p43 
            TaintCheck: TaintSeed, TaintTrack, TaintAssert? p46 -xxx
            Advantages of static vs. dynamic taint analysis
            Coarse vs. precise tainting
            Sting: How to efficiently detect and prevent the spreading of   worms
            VSEF Vulnerability Specific Execution Filtering:
                Filter based on execution trace rather than on input
        ppt-7--highlevbugs(heisenbug)-MECHANISMS1
            why there are bugs still?
            the def of robust -xxx
            sys. architecture p7 
            diff. bet. robustness and software fault tolerance p10 
            what is the reason of resource depletion? lack of res.?
            resource failures is kind of robustness issue? 
            how to measure robustness? p13  ==
            types of bugs? x3 their examples?x4  p18
            what kind of bugs are difficult to recognize? roughly
            what may behind random effect? 
            for non-reproducible fault, what approach can we use?  highlev x8..
            compare HEISENBUGS and BOHRBUGS? x2 -xxx
            the idea of process pair with pic p22 -ans 
            what is supervisord script used for? 
            supervisord architecture-- similar to program state graph p30
            still, we have problems even Thorough we use supervisord script to help us restart 
                how to solve this problem? x2 or their combination // p31 + p35 
                ->the architecture of it! p35 
            combined approach, ultimate solution! p35 -xxx
            service states -- 
            what to query when watching supervisord? x2 p33 
            ---
            in gracefully degradation, we can return partial or wrong result? 
                what we should do to prevent that? 
                the idea? p37 
                degeneration
            --- 
            selective retry, the idea? 
            HIERARCHICAL retry, what is that?
            use selective retry to increase the probability of success 
            Bohrbug--continus crashing 
                we can solve it with gracefully DEGREDATION
                store session state 
            how can we know the number that a client have already retried? p60 
            using session state? p62 
            given 2 processes, how can we detect one has been Crashed?/link processes?
                use pipe, how ? p72 
                as failure detector?
            what is termination atomicity?  p73 
            example in practice: farmer/ worker model p59 explain in detail
            what is Rejuvenation? p83 
            it can be Proactive or Reactive? 
            PROACTIVE REJUVENATION VARIANTS? 
                what is periodicxxx, detail 
                what is Load-basedxxx, detail
                and prediction based 
            only rejuvenate if all services that are needed for recovery are available, effective Rejuvenation
        ppt-8--highlevbugs-MECHANISMS2 ok 
            ---Checkpointing
                what is Checkpointing? 
                //what problem can arise when using waitpid() func.? p14 
                the problem of lost updates 
                    why? with a pic. hhh
                    approach? p21 ==
                Rejuvenation vs Checkpointing and state? p29 
                ways to balence from storing all states to saving no states? x2 
                    effective checkpointing
                we are talking about online applications / similar to states 
                    in vms, dockers
            ---scrubbing
                how to state scrubbing? 
                    mem, app state 
                how to Memory scrubbing? p33
                how to purge state errors? (similar to dependency errors in system)
                given a piece of code, what is N mean p34 ? what means ft>=0? 
                    why exit?
                APPLICATION STATE CORRECTION? check the invariants
                whta is the diff. bet. processes and threads? p42 
                what can we use when facing resource leak? 
                MECHANISMS USED BY APACHE? hh p52
            ---recovery block
                what is recovery block?　idea? p54 
                    example p55 
                what happends if no alternatives here? 
                what costs does it have? recovery block p59 roughly
            ---microreboot
                what can we use if we have a long restart time 
                how to do that p71 
                what is reboot tree 
                what is mttf/mttr p78 
                how can make it more robust? by making use of two components, 
                    watching each other rebooting each other 
                why good? the one with bad MTTF has smaller MTTR 
                SUBTREE DEPTH AUGMENTATION, what is that pic p93 
                why subdivision? prevent to reboot the whole sys. 
                diff. tree structures exist, to minimize the need of reboot 
                tight coupling vs loose coupling? p117 hhh
                methods- retry for Idempotent function? or non-xx  x3 p118 
                All resources have a lease time？ resource lease time...
                resources will be reclaimed
                structure of reboot can improve reboot time
            ---MICROSERVICES
                MICROSERVICES has a better scalbility/data recovery ? 
        ppt-9--highlevbugs-antipattern ok
            network is homogenous? 
            topology does not change? 
            infinite bandwidth? 
            what is antipattern p7 
            is post mortem analyse a good pattern? 
            what are typical integration points? p9 x3 
                and what is that 
            problems may happen with integration points? p15 
            AWS has 100s of services, how can they be connected with each other? 
            an example to Microservices? cloud computing ? 
            AWS architecture hh 
                -later 
            antipattern1--cascading failures
                the problem of it? 
                to overcome it, we have to prevent propagation of failures bet. layers
                    how? x3 
                patterns that we can use for this properse? p23 x1
                CIRCUIT BREAKER STATE TRANSITIONS hhh 
                how does time out method work? why we use it p23 
                    examples about that p32 
                problem by proxy method? p33 
                ***summ. what we do for this anti pattern? what are patterns? x3 
            antipattern2--chain reaction
                the problem of it?
                even though our servers are decoupled, may be problems
                what is that problem? p35 p37 
                ***patterns for that? x4 
                    detail for them -large ==
            antipattern3--blocked threads 
                threads are waiting for sth. or accu. they will all be blocked and can not prograss 
                why hard to test them? 
                solution? x2 
                    detail to each -large 
            DDoS attack
                what is „Slashdot“ effect ==
                good marketing can kill your system
                solution/ approach x4 -large  p52 ==
            when to Rejuvenate? a pattern? p55 
                more efficient hand-over? p57 
                Tools for automatic restart? hh p59 
                p60 later 
                what is respawn limit xy? when used to restart a service or the system. p60 
            amazon ASG?
                why auto scaling? p64 what police can we use? 
                    metrics? x4 cpu utilization.....
                    when some metrics satisfy a given condition, we perform an adjustment
                    not easy to speak a good policy 
                    scale up/ down? 
                    but, cpu not allways the bottleneck... hard to say which is 
                what is ELASTIC LOAD BALANCER?
                    the architecture? p75 
                    load balencer with scaling group
                    it also ...
                what means availability zones? 
                    grouped into regions
                    each region is completely independent 
                    similar to bulkhead approach
                    and autoscaling group in availability zone
                    the architecture? p79 
                    fail-over to an other rigion 
                further, can use DNS based load balencing and fail-over 
            what is chaos monkey,the idea  p86 87 ext  x2 
        ppt-10--highlevbugs-Microservices and chaosmonkey ok
            start from compartion 
            the modern way of building dependable services? 
            most Challenges using traditional methods? x2 roughly p3
            how do you think about MONOLITHIC software  p4
            kinds of MONOLITHIC soft? x3 p5 hh
            with git tool, we can use branch for ? x3 p8 
            Disadvantage even though git management has been used? \
            modern source control system
            feature branch? how to merge into dev. 
            rebase?? later 
            the example of python lib. p14 
            the architecture of monolithic dev. process p16 
            advantages and disadv of monolithic deployment p18 19 x1x3 roughly
            def. of microservices p23 
            can use diff. versions in diff. services (parts)
            illu. the scalbility of those two approaches: monolithic+microservices
                p29 
            the scalbility of microservices: easy to introduce new versions 
            the runtime structure of monolithic and non-monolithic services p34 
            loose coupling? how x2 p39 
            what is a fail-fast design p45
            local restart process, when dealing with error can not solve  p45 
            what is transparent restart? p46 
            we have to avoid all services reboot at the same time! 
            remote restart? how p47 
            load balencer may also be restarted 
            dealing with： LB may have diff. IP when restarted -- use url 
            how to perform fault injection during testing and production? 
            apply fault tolerant to microservices? roughly hh
        chaosmonkey ok
            the idea -- check if our solution works
            def of a complex system? p5    
            why bugs everywhere? -- too complex too little time 
            what is Chaos Engineering p7 
                ways to do that x2 p9 
            what is the Problem with testing env.? x1
            the solution for that? p11 
            it is about increasing the confidence of the sys. 
            how to measure that our sys. works properly? 
                -- use monitoring infrastra.
                what to measure? p13 roughly x3 
            what to inject? p14 x2 
            pass fault injections does not means sys. will work properly in 
                production sys. 
            perform injections during staff is in office... 
            what means MINIMIZE BLAST RADIUS p19 
            diff. kinds of monkeys p21-23
                also, some good monkeys 
            steps/ways to test x3  p25 
        ppt-11--highlevbugs-RX ok 
            the poisonous request , what is that 
            the problem when we using the same configuration for each instance? p7 
            idea of rx 
                in real life means ? 
                in se dev means? 
                p9 
                p67 
            diff. checkpointing Strategies? p10 x2 --理论上不是这章节的
            in RX, what do we do when bug is detected ?x3  p12 
            re: kinds of bugs? x3
            advantages of rx p15 ==
            what are execution env. ? x3 p16 
            what are the properties of a re-env. change? p16 x2 
            bugs in mem. management, how can it be solved (applying) p18 give examples 
            heap and stack, give some examples p19 
            what is RETURN-ORIENTED PROGRAMMING (ROP) ? p28 ==
                to prevent? 
            possible solution to buffer overflow x2x1 p29 p30
            stack buffer overflow attack explain ? 
            heap buffer overflow ? what is that ? what is the problem? overwrite what 
            what is mem. corruption p42
            one can overwrite any mem. location? 
            inject attack code ... code later 
            environmental changes, what are they typically p46
            security problems hard to detect 
            ---
            rx architecture? p50 x5 the pic!! *
                what are sensors? p51 
                two types of sensors p51 
                why not integrated the second type? 
                what are SENSORS? p51 
                lightweight checkpointing method? paper[2] later 
                the pic? p50, exp!!
                    what is env wrapper? includes what? x3+ 
                        what is mem. wrapper supports what? x4 hhh 
                        what is message wrapper
                        process scheduling.... why we use them? p54 
                        env warpers? x5 
                    proxy can also help this process 
                    the functionality of control unit in rx architecture 
                env. changes and the types of bugs * explain the table -xxx
                bug types can be solved by RX ? p59 .... roughly x4...
                recovery performance? explain the pic.. p62
                minor performance impact of RX 
                how to Improve the performance of RX? 
                    the order of env. changes does metter x3 we have to optimize it p65 
                Challenges of RX p66 == -xxx
                it is about surviving software faults....
                provides more feedbacks for bug analysis (diagnoses)
                typical imp. , with diff. env. settings 